Document sequenced transaction pool behavior (#1600)
hyperledger/besu-docs: docs/public-networks/concepts/transactions/pool.md

| [`--tx-pool`](../../reference/cli/options.md#tx-pool)                                        | Option to specify the type of transaction pool to use.                           | Both                 |
| [`--tx-pool-layer-max-capacity`](../../reference/cli/options.md#tx-pool-layer-max-capacity)  | Option to specify the maximum memory capacity of the transaction pool.           | Layered only         |
| [`--tx-pool-price-bump`](../../reference/cli/options.md#tx-pool-price-bump)                  | Option to specify the price bump percentage to replace an existing transaction.  | Both                 |
| [`--tx-pool-priority-senders`](../../reference/cli/options.md#tx-pool-priority-senders)      | Option to specify sender addresses to prioritize in the transaction pool.        | Both                 |
| [`newPendingTransactions`](../../how-to/use-besu-api/rpc-pubsub.md#pending-transactions)     | RPC subscription to notify you of transactions added to the transaction pool.    | Both                 |

> | [`droppedPendingTransactions`](../../how-to/use-besu-api/rpc-pubsub.md#dropped-transactions) | RPC subscription to notify you of transactions dropped from the transaction pool.| Both                 |

Reviewer: I think it's a little confusing to include only some tx pool options and methods in a table, without specifying why these are more special than the other options – maybe we should either list *all* tx pool related options or none.

Reviewer 2: okay. This was a list in the docs previously, so I just converted it to a table. I will just add the --tx-pool options that are missing.

You can opt out of the layered transaction pool implementation by setting the
[`--tx-pool`](../../reference/cli/options.md#tx-pool) option to `sequenced`.

## Sequenced transaction pool

In the sequenced transaction pool, transactions are processed strictly in the order they are received.
Although sequenced transaction pools lack the flexibility of layered pools, they help maintain a 
consistent and transparent transaction order, which is often useful in private blockchains. 

You can select the sequenced transaction pool by setting [`--tx-pool=sequenced`](../../reference/cli/options.md#tx-pool).

If you set the enterprise configuration profile using [`--profile=enterprise`](../../how-to/use-configuration-file/profile.md#enterpriseprivate-profile) or [`--profile=private`](../../how-to/use-configuration-file/profile.md#enterpriseprivate-profile), the `sequenced` transaction pool is set by default.

> The sequenced transaction pool suits enterprise environments because it functions like a first-in-first-out (FIFO) queue and processes transactions in the order of submission, regardless of the sender. 

Reviewer 3: I believe the following statements are misleading:

> In the sequenced transaction pool, transactions are processed **strictly in the order they are received**.
> Although sequenced transaction pools lack the flexibility of layered pools, they help maintain a **consistent and transparent transaction order**, which is often useful in private blockchains. 

> The sequenced transaction pool suits enterprise environments because it functions like a **first-in-first-out (FIFO) queue** and **processes transactions in the order of submission**, regardless of the sender. 

As one can believe that transactions are no longer ordered by gas prices, but solely on submission timestamp.

Reviewer 4: @matthew1001 I think this comment is correct, since we usually linked the sequenced pool with gasless networks, then only the submission order is relevant, but in case there is a gas market, the order should be: gas price first, then submission order, do you agree?

Reviewer 5: Yes, I believe that the order does take into account gas price - it's just that it's very rare people combine the two. I think the docs update can be a simple one, to qualify the current text. E.g. `In the sequenced transaction pool, if the network's gas price is 0, transactions are processed strictly in the order they are received...`. 

Then perhaps we need another paragraph e.g.

```
It is possible to configure a private blockchain with non-zero gas price. In this case the sequenced transaction pool does factor transaction gas price into the selection priority order.
```

You can opt out of the layered transaction pool implementation by setting the
[`--tx-pool`](../../reference/cli/options.md#tx-pool) option to `sequenced`.

## Sequenced transaction pool

In the sequenced transaction pool, transactions are processed strictly in the order they are received.
Although sequenced transaction pools lack the flexibility of layered pools, they help maintain a 
consistent and transparent transaction order, which is often useful in private blockchains. 

You can select the sequenced transaction pool by setting `--tx-pool=sequenced`.

> If you set the enterprise configuration profile using `--profile=enterprise`, the sequenced transaction pool is set by default.

Reviewer: Can you add links to the `--tx-pool` and `--profile` options?

* If you set [`zeroBaseFee`](../../reference/genesis-items.md) to `true` in the genesis file,
  the transaction pool price bump is set to `0`. Specifying a value for transaction pool price bump using [`--tx-pool-price-bump`](../../reference/cli/options.md#tx-pool-price-bump)
  will cause an error.
* If the [minimum gas price is zero](../../../private-networks/how-to/configure/free-gas.md), the transaction pool price bump is set to `0`, unless you specify a different value using [`--tx-pool-price-bump`](../../reference/cli/options.md#tx-pool-price-bump).

## Transaction pool options and methods

Options and methods for configuring and monitoring the transaction pool include the following:

|                                                                                              | Description                                                                      | Transaction pool type|
|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------|----------------------|

> | [`txpool_besuTransactions`](../../reference/api/index.md#txpool_besutransactions)            | API method to list transactions in the transaction pool.                         | Both                 |

Reviewer: There are two more `txpool_` API methods to add to this table: https://besu.hyperledger.org/public-networks/reference/api#txpool-methods

| [`--tx-pool-min-gas-price`](../../reference/cli/options.md#tx-pool-min-gas-price)            | Option to specify the minimum gas price for transactions in the pool.            | Both                 |
| [`--tx-pool-no-local-priority`](../../reference/cli/options.md#tx-pool-no-local-priority)    | Option to disable local priority for transactions.                               | Both                 |
| [`--tx-pool-price-bump`](../../reference/cli/options.md#tx-pool-price-bump)                  | Option to specify the price bump percentage to replace an existing transaction.  | Both                 |
| [`--tx-pool-priority-senders`](../../reference/cli/options.md#tx-pool-priority-senders)      | Option to specify sender addresses to prioritize in the transaction pool.        | Both                 |
| [`--tx-pool-retention-hours`](../../reference/cli/options.md#tx-pool-retention-hours)        | Option to specify the number of hours to retain transactions in the pool.        | Both                 |

> | [`tx-pool-save-file`](../../reference/cli/options.md#tx-pool-save-file)                      | Option to specify the file for saving the transaction pool state.                | Both                 |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| [`--tx-pool-save-file`](../../reference/cli/options.md#tx-pool-save-file)                      | Option to specify the file for saving the transaction pool state.                | Both                 |
```

* If you set [`zeroBaseFee`](../../reference/genesis-items.md) to `true` in the genesis file,
  the transaction pool price bump is set to `0`. Specifying a value for transaction pool price bump using [`--tx-pool-price-bump`](../../reference/cli/options.md#tx-pool-price-bump)
  will cause an error.
* If the [minimum gas price is zero](../../../private-networks/how-to/configure/free-gas.md), the transaction pool price bump is set to `0`, unless you specify a different value using [`--tx-pool-price-bump`](../../reference/cli/options.md#tx-pool-price-bump).

## Transaction pool methods and options

> Methods and options for configuring and monitoring the transaction pool include the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can configure and monitor the transaction pool using the following methods, subscriptions, and options:
```

| Method                                                                                             | Description                                                                         |
|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| [`txpool_besuTransactions`](../../reference/api/index.md#txpool_besutransactions)                  | API method to list transactions in the transaction pool.                            |
| [`txpool_besuStatistics`](../../reference/api/index.md#txpool_besustatistics)                      | API method to list statistics of the transaction pool.                              |
| [`txpool_besuPendingTransactions`](../../reference/api/index.md#txpool_besupendingtransactions)    | API method to list pending transactions in the transaction pool.                    |

> | [`newPendingTransactions`](../../how-to/use-besu-api/rpc-pubsub.md#pending-transactions)           | RPC subscription to notify of transactions added to the transaction pool.           |
> | [`droppedPendingTransactions`](../../how-to/use-besu-api/rpc-pubsub.md#dropped-transactions)       | RPC subscription to notify of transactions dropped from the transaction pool.       |

Reviewer: ```suggestion

| Subscription |  Description |
| [`newPendingTransactions`](../../how-to/use-besu-api/rpc-pubsub.md#pending-transactions)           | RPC subscription to notify of transactions added to the transaction pool.           |
| [`droppedPendingTransactions`](../../how-to/use-besu-api/rpc-pubsub.md#dropped-transactions)       | RPC subscription to notify of transactions dropped from the transaction pool.       |
```

## Transaction pool methods and options

You can configure and monitor the transaction pool using the following methods, subscriptions, and options:

| Method                                                                                             | Description                                                                         |
|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| [`txpool_besuTransactions`](../../reference/api/index.md#txpool_besutransactions)                  | API method to list transactions in the transaction pool.                            |
| [`txpool_besuStatistics`](../../reference/api/index.md#txpool_besustatistics)                      | API method to list statistics of the transaction pool.                              |
| [`txpool_besuPendingTransactions`](../../reference/api/index.md#txpool_besupendingtransactions)    | API method to list pending transactions in the transaction pool.                    |

> | Subscription |  Description |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Subscription |  Description |
|--------------|-------------|
```
